Mcr ietf123 minor edits (#187)
IETF-OPSAWG-WG/draft-ietf-opsawg-pcap: draft-ietf-opsawg-pcap.md

operating systems, and to read and write network traces to a file was
later put into a library named libpcap.

> This document describes the format used by tcpdump, wireshark, and many other

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes the format historically used by tcpdump, wireshark, and many other
```

> programs that are libpcap, or another library, to read and write network traces.

Reviewer 2: That was fixed.

reads the new format could not read the old format (i.e., code to read
both formats would have to check the version number and use different
code paths for the two formats) and code that reads the old format could

> not read the new format.  As this document is historical, and newer formats exist,

Reviewer 2: Or does "newer formats" refer to, for example, pcapng, rather than to newer versions of pcap (i.e., a file format with a pcap magic number but a different major version number)?

> not read the new format.  As this document is historical, and newer formats exist,

Reviewer 2: OK, saw the suggested change.

> not read the new format.  As this document is historical, and newer formats exist,
> this value will not change again.

Author: ```suggestion
not read the new format.  As this document is historical, and no newer formats were publicly released,
this value will not change again.
```

field are between 0 and 15; Ethernet, for example, would have an FCS
length value of 2, corresponding to a 4-octet FCS.

> ## File Endian information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## File Endian Information
```

The magic number is stored in native endian format, so all the byte sequences below are magic numbers.

* 0xA1,0xB2,0xC3,0xD4: little endian file, with timestamps in seconds/micro-seconds.
* 0x1A,0x2B,0x3C,0x4D: little endian file, with timestamps in seconds/nano-seconds.
* 0xD4,0xC3,0xB2,0xA1: big endian file, with timestamps in seconds/micro-seconds.
* 0x4D,0x3C,0x2B,0x1A: big endian file, with timestamps in seconds/nano-seconds.

: If the value is 0xA1B2C3D4, timestamps in Packet Records (see Figure

> 3) are in seconds and microseconds; if it is 0xA1B23C4D, timestamps in

Reviewer: The sentence seems truncated.

Please note: To avoid confusion (such as the current usage of .cap for a
plethora of different capture file formats) file name extensions other

> than `.pcap` should be avoided.

Author: I don't think there is an interoperability issue here, so I don't feel SHOULD matters, but I do not object it.

> than `.pcap` should be avoided.

Reviewer 2: One issue is that if, for example, you have Whoopie! Packet Sniffer 3.06 installed, and it has its own format for which it uses `.cap`, and you have a pcap file named `from.cap`, double-clicking on that file in your file manager might cause Whoopie! Packet Sniffer 3.06, which does *not* support reading pcap files, to try to read it, which will cause it to fail (hopefully with "sorry, that file isn't in a format that I recognize" rather than something more catastrophic such as crashing).

A new format that supersedes the present PCAP format is specified in {{I-D.ietf-opsawg-pcapng}}.
The new file format is not compatible with this specification, but many programs read  both transparently.
Version numbers in the two file formats are not related.
A distinct Magic Number exists in the new PCAP format so that readers can transparently determine what format is used.
It is not uncommon for the same extension, `.pcap` to be used for both.

#  Security Considerations

> A pcap file reader MUST do validate the file header and file packet header, and also the contained headers for the packet capture.

Author: ```suggestion
A pcap file reader MUST validate the file header and file packet header, and also the contained headers for the packet capture.
```

> A pcap file reader MUST do validate the file header and file packet header, and also the contained headers for the packet capture.

Reviewer 2: That's been fixed.

A reader can receive as input not only valid headers or packets, but any arbitrary
random sequence of octets:

> Headers or packets originally may be intentionally malformed by a sender. Also, capture files from outside sources may contain intentionally malformed contents.

Reviewer 2: Should it also note that the malformation might be *maliciously* intended?

> Headers or packets originally may be intentionally malformed by a sender. Also, capture files from outside sources may contain intentionally malformed contents.

Author: ```suggestion
Headers or packets may be intentionally malformed by a sender., and capture files from outside sources may contain intentionally malformed contents, for malicious reasons.
```

Reviewer 2: Remove the "." in the new version after "sender" and before ",".

Author: > Remove the "." in the new version after "sender" and before ",".

You ought to be able to hit edit on my suggestion, but I'll do that.

plethora of different capture file formats) file name extensions other
than .pcap should be avoided.

> A PCAP Next Generation capture file format (pcapng, see {{I-D.ietf-opsawg-pcapng}}) now exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new format that supersedes the present PCAP format is specified in {{I-D.ietf-opsawg-pcapng}} (referred to as "new PCAP format").
```

The new file format is not compatible with this specification, but many programs read  both transparently.
Version numbers in the two file formats are not related.

> A distinct Magic Number exists in the pcapng format so readers can transparently determine what format is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A distinct Magic Number exists in the new PCAP format so that readers can transparently determine what format is used.
```

> It is not uncommon for the same extension, .pcap to be used for both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is not uncommon for the same extension, `.pcap` to be used for both.
```

#  Security Considerations

A pcap file reader MUST do validate the file header and file packet header, and also the contained headers for the packet capture.
A reader can receive as input not only valid headers or packets, but any arbitrary
random sequence of octets:

> Headers or packets originally may be intenationally malformed by a sender, and capture files from outside sources may also contain intentionally malformed contents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Headers or packets originally may be intentionally malformed by a sender. Also, capture files from outside sources may contain intentionally malformed contents.
```
